So I mentioned in the last video that my school was relational database management system or RDBMS and
in this video we're going to learn what an RDBMS actually is our national database is a collection of
data organized into multiple tables.
Now tables contain columns of data categories and then rows with particular instances of that data category.
So if we look at an example table here we have a screen grab from a customers table.
Now this might be customers table for a shop and it contains all the data they have on their customers
who shop there.
So it has already failed.
It has their first and last name of the customers.
And it also has that agenda.
So the data categories are ID first name last name and gender and then each row has an instance of that
data.
So the first name contains Chris and Mark Daniel Sarah.
So the first names of all their customers and simply last name contains all the instances of their last
name.
So this is an example of what a table looks like in a relational database.
Now the whole point of relational databases is that the tables within the database can be linked together
or they share a relation.
So you can see we have two tables here.
We have the customers table from before.
And we also have an Orders table so we can see in the Orders table.
We have an order of time.
So the time order was placed but we also have a customer ID and this is linked to the ID field in the
Customers table.
So you can see this Customers table and this Orders table within the same database Shavar link and this
link can be used in many different ways.
So tables within a relational database can be linked like this.
So they share common columns and this is what we mean by relationships within the database.
So an RDBMS like my ask you will is a program which we use to access and interact with a relational
database.